---
layout: news
author: Torsten
---
###  Why didn't anyone tell me. If only i'd known! I would have done this years ago.


  It's a real shock. How can web development be so easy! I'm sure the work i did <b>last month</b> would have taken 
  a team of 3 half a year not soo long ago. By jolly.

  Off course it's rails that does it. And the literally thousand of people spending what i hear are millions of hours
  to make the magic work. And it's got to be magic, when you can have

- Controller methods without code that still do lots of work
- Use attributes on a model and they just pop out from the database without having to write any code
- You ca generate code that not only saves all the typing but shows how it's done!
- Pictures become attributes! Gosh, i could tell stories about the first uploads we ever did.
- Searching and pagination become a minimal amount of lines. 
        Even for pagination formatting to your chosen css framework is just another gem line.

### To the faceless millions, creating the vibrant community

  Really it is so much more than rails itself. It it the whole community around it.  

  The first thing i do when i have a problem, (file upload/sorting/form writing/graphs/css/etc..) i go and look what 
  gems are available. It's just the biggest cookie store there is out there. Somebody will have had the problem, 
  and made a gem available. I can fork and edit if i want to tweek beyond the authors imagination and even
  easily give the work back. Git, Github, bundler are just ceating these great social practises. 

  Off course if i don't find the solution, this encourages me to create one and put it out there. As a thanks and my
  participation. I'm not sure even Richard Stallman had the imagination to envision all this. It is a true achievement
  of our times, one of the very very few positive feedback loops we have, 
  and (in my more positive moments) gives a glimmer of hope for mankind.
